all right we're here with James de Junio
he's the author of the JFK assassination
the evidence today and he's the editor
and publisher of Kennedy's in king.com
today we're going to talk about his
review of Tom Hanks's 1968 Jim wrote a
review on Kennedy's and king.com which
you can find there and Jim tagged it as
a thoroughly mediocre rendering of a
tumultuous year mediocre in every way
including aesthetically so Jim is gonna
talk about that today thanks for joining
us Jim okay thank you David nice to be
with you again the complete title is
1968 the year that changed history and I
agree with the subtitle because 1968 was
probably the most tumultuous year in
American history since the end of World
War two it was just an amazing series of
events that one after another most of
them unexpected okay they were surprise
after surprise after surprise after
surprise going all the way from the Tet
Offensive to Nixon being elected which I
don't think very many people would have
foreseen at the beginning of that year
all right now I'd like to say that Tom
Hanks and Gary goetzmann made a
documentary that was up to the subject
but in my opinion that's not even close
all right it's it's a typical one of
their they do several of these
historical profiles like the sixties the
seventies et cetera all right and they
all come out being more or less the same
they look the same they the the content
is similar and that they use these
mainstream sources all right there's no
real invention to any of the stylistic
things it's all it is is archival
footage plus Talking Heads
alright there's no real original use of
photography of music you know and
because they use all of these mainstream
media sources there's nothing really
interesting as to the content of them
either
alright now by the way now let me add
something here in this interview I'm
gonna go beyond what's in my article
alright in the last say 10 to 15 years
when I talk about aesthetically no
aesthetic achievement in this film the
documentary form has had some new
stylistic devices added to it most
notably by Adam Curtis the British
filmmaker who his film on al-qaeda the
power of nightmares
I think that's online anybody who hasn't
seen that film should see it now because
not only did Adam Curtis find
commentators who were willing you know
he was willing to listen to these people
who were off to beaten paths and
therefore had new and original insights
to this phenomenon of Islamic
fundamentalism and how it began but
stylistically that film is so many
rocket miles above anything that Hanks
has done you know that it's watching it
is like night and day with this I mean
just watching it not listening to it but
the way Adam Curtis used the documentary
medium you know was really new and
different and and I think that means
something another film that did this is
the film the kid stays in the picture
okay about Robert Evans where if you
if you take a look at that film alright
those people did you know some really
interesting things all right with the
actual documentary form all right and if
you take a look at the DVD and the DVD
they actually talk about some of the
things that they did that was that was
different and original that's film had
two directors Nanette Bernstein and
Brett Morgan and Brett Morgan is the guy
who on the DVD the narrative track he
talks about why he did certain things
you know and that breakaway out of this
constant back and forth between archival
footage and Talking Heads see and and
this is what I'm talking about you know
now I'm not saying that every
documentary you know it has to be that
inventive okay or have to take wish like
that but what I'm saying is if you
choose a bunch of MSM you know
blithering idiots as your commentators
who offer absolutely no new insight you
know into the subject then maybe you
should do a little thing different in
the way you present it to maintain an
interest right okay but but you know you
know this might be as far as Hanks and
Gary Gulman goes this is a Dark Side of
the Moon to them all right
now I also want to explain in my essay I
want to explain why I believe Playtone
which is their film company turns out
these thoroughly medio core products all
right and that I think goes to the
friendship of tanks and Spielberg his
buddy Steven Spielberg with the late
historian Stephen Ambrose all right
Ambrose made his mark on the American
scene with his books about Dwight
Eisenhower all right
especially his two-volume formal
biography published in 1983 in 1984 all
of his books about Eisenhower and I
think there were about five of them
except the first one were published
after Eisenhower died in 1969 later on
it was proven and I mean really proven
by both an Eisenhower archivist and his
appointment secretary that Ambrose made
up numerous interviews that he
supposedly did with Eisenhower and these
guys proved that he could not have been
with Eisenhower at those times and in my
book the JFK assassination the evidence
today I go ahead and quote that
information all right now later on I
think was after he passed away Ambrose
Ambrose no no actually I think it was
when he was alive Ambrose was also
proven to be a serial plagiarist
and in the article here I quote two
sources for that all right but in my
opinion that's not the worst the worst
is that what Ambrose did with his friend
James Bach you and his interesting very
interesting and milestone book other
losses James block you had done some
real digging and in the military
archives of World War two and by the way
this is exactly the kind of thing that
Ambrose didn't do alright and he later
admitted it that he was more interested
in the storytelling aspect of history
than in the scholarly digging aspect of
history all right
Bach you had made some very very
interesting discoveries about the Allies
treatment of the Germans prisoners of
war
okay and the cover-up that was entailed
after it he sent his manuscript to
Ambrose in advance of publication and
Ambrose had nothing but praise for it in
1989 before the book was be published
abroad booked you then visited Ambrose
at his home and the two went over the
book in detail when other losses was
published in the United States Ambrose
at first hood by the book but the book
was generating controversy of course
because it accused the allies including
Eisenhower of deliberately starving
literally tens of thousands of German
prisoners of war after he did a teaching
engagement at the US Army War College
Ambrose began to reverse field first he
organized a seminar attacking the book
then as he would do with Oliver Stone's
film JFK he wrote a negative article for
the New York Times
now as James Bach you noted the book
that was published is the same book that
Ambrose looked at twice before
publication all right which he had so
much effusive praise for the difference
was of course at now that information
was public and it was creating a rather
sensational reaction all right and so
the establishment now was calling upon
mr. Ambrose was supposed to be the
expert on Eisenhower okay to go ahead
and answer these charges and to put it
very simply Ambrose did their bidding
all right under pressure from the New
York Times and the military not only did
he attack the book in the New York Times
not only did he engage a panel down in
New Orleans to attack the book in public
but he then published a book based upon
the panel to counter Bacchus book and in
my article I have Bacchus reply
either okay to that that book panel Bach
you later wrote that he couldn't really
blame Ambrose for all this because the
American establishment does not really
value accuracy in the historical record
what it wants is quote a pleasing
chronicle which justifies and supports
the society
he then lauded that in light of that
fact quote we should not wonder when a
very popular writer like Ambrose is
revealed to be both a liar and a
plagiarism plagiarize er because he is
in fact giving us what we demand from
him above all that is a pleasing myth
and this is why I believe that Hanks and
Spielberg were attracted to this guy
because that's essentially what they're
about okay you know Hanks and Spielberg
are not real diggers into history okay I
mean Spielberg optioned a book on
Charles Lindbergh without knowing number
one that he was a Nazi sympathizer and
number two that he was a bigamist that
he had as he had a secret family in
Europe at the time he was married okay
he'd even know that before he optioned a
book okay and and the other indication
of how bad these guys are were in the
movie the post trying to make heroes and
heroines out of Kay Graham and Ben
Bradley on the Vietnam War which is
utterly ridiculous right all right in
which which I reviewed and in my book
the JFK assassination the evidence today
I I doubled the length on that review
because I had to see the movie twice to
really understand how bad it really was
but see this is the kind of thing this
is the kind of history that interests
these two guys that interests see unlike
Oliver Stone who was attracted to people
who push the envelope who go beyond the
parameters of historical scholarship
like for example John Newman you know in
the movie JFK
John Newman's pioneering work on channa
Dee's intent to withdraw from Vietnam
see that wouldn't be attractive to these
guys you know all right so anyway all
that I believe is important to
understanding this latest documentary
1968 the year that changed America
all right now kinks
let's just talk very briefly about some
of the feature films he's produced
Charlie Wilson's War parkland and the
post these tried to make heroes and
heroines out of people who were not for
example the late representative Charlie
Wilson and then we're in Afghanistan the
Dallas police in his film parkland about
the Kennedy assassination and as I
mentioned Ben Bradley and Kay Graham on
the war in Vietnam and the Pentagon
Papers in my opinion those films I
really don't think there's any two ways
about it those films ended up being
misleading about all those subjects
about the origins and results of the war
in Afghanistan about the assassination
of President Kennedy and about the
position of the Washington pros from a
Vietnam War
all right now since he wrote about
Eisenhower one of Ambrose's
preoccupations was World War two he
wrote at least a dozen books on world
war ii hanks the spielberg
took a vignette out of his book Band of
Brothers and greatly expanded and
heavily revised it into the movie Saving
Private Ryan which I also discuss in my
book the JFK assassination the evidence
today from there hang Spielberg produced
the very expensive miniseries Band of
Brothers on HBO alright that was a
chronicle of a company of American
soldiers fighting in the European
theater until the surrender of Japan in
addition to those
to Hanks has produced three
documentaries on the subject of American
soldiers fighting in Europe and as
anybody who's seen Saving Private Ryan
knows that film is largely based on the
Allied landing at Normandy in 1944 and
Ambrose wrote a lot on that particular
event in fact one of his books was
titled d-day June 6 1944 the climactic
Battle of world war ii and in the film's
by Hanks and Spielberg and the
documentaries they produced did that's
the effect that they want to convey that
America defeated the Third Reich right
well well see that the thing is the
problem we get back to this original
problem I noted with Hanks in his films
Parkland Charlie Wilson's War and the
post it's it's not true to say that any
any authority who has studied World War
two will tell you that to say America
defeated Hitler is a mythology out of a
high school textbook all right it's
simply not accurate and in fact you the
thing is you don't get into this since I
was a history major you don't get into
this until you get into about a 300
level class as an undergraduate because
even in even in something like Western
Civ or US history on a 100 200 level
you're not probably not going to get to
Operation Barbarossa Operation
Barbarossa was Hitler's massive invasion
of Russia okay in 1941 it was a defeat
of Barbarossa by the Russians that was
the climactic battle of World War two I
don't think any historian would argue
with that all right all right this took
an achromatic battle took place in 1942
at Stalingrad and
and to a lesser extent in 1943 was a
tank battle at Kursk you know both of
those gigantic battles took place prior
to Normandy and Hitler gambled
everything on them and I'm where I
literally mean that he gambled
everything on those two battles his
invasion of Russia in 1941 consumed 80%
of the Wehrmacht 80 percent of the
German army over 3 million men to this
day it's the largest land invasion in
history all right now again I'm gonna go
a little bit further than I did in this
essay Hitler probably would have won
Operation Barbarossa except he made
three mistakes in all three of these
mistakes he overruled his General Staff
okay first that invasion was supposed to
take place in April of 1941 because the
German generals wanted as long as they
could a long time interval to make sure
they got into Moscow before the winter
started falling
well Hitler delayed it because he needed
he always had a soft spot for Mussolini
Mussolini begged him for some help in
Greece in the Balkans and so Hitler took
200,000 men off the Russian front and
sent him into Greece to help Mussolini
and they didn't get back for like six or
seven weeks all right so the invasion
was delayed and it went in June instead
of April the second big mistake was that
the German generals had so much success
moving this giant German army so fast
through Russia that they actually were
exceeding their schedule for they were
covering 70 miles a day which is amazing
with this giant army so they decided
to bypass the city of Kiev and the
Ukraine
well when Hitler heard that he overruled
the generals and told him to go back and
take the city all right so laying siege
to the city and then having a City fall
took another six weeks so that that's
thirteen weeks that he lost there all
right so when he when the German army
does get to the outskirts of Moscow and
they're about to descend into the city
the snow starts falling and it's the
worst Russian winter in 100 years all
right and so what happens of course in a
military sense what this did see it's
not really true to say that the Russians
stopped the blitzkrieg it was really the
Russian winter that stopped the
blitzkrieg because between the
combination of freezing temperatures and
foot upon foot of snow the Panzer tanks
couldn't move anymore they were
literally stuck there all right
all right and so these these what
happened was it got so cold that the
gasoline froze in the gas tanks hmm
right and then the temperature dropped
so much and Hitler was so certain that
his army would be in Moscow by the time
the snow started flying that he didn't
give them any any winter clothing okay
and these guys started to get frostbite
so once the Russian general Zhukov
saw that the blitzkrieg was stopped he
arranged a furious counter-attack okay
and so for the first time the German
army now began to fall back all right
and so at this point and this was the
third mistake the German generals
recommended that they go back behind the
Volga River wait for the spring and
launch another
counter-offensive and so Hitler
disagreed and he said we're gonna battle
it out at Stalingrad alright and so he
moved most of the German army from
Moscow and said that it was a it was a
three-headed attack one army was was at
Leningrad one was aimed at Moscow one at
Stalingrad he moved a large amount of
the Moscow army down to Stalingrad
alright because he thought since the
Ukraine was so rich in things like you
know petroleum etc that that would be
the most enticing target and this ended
up being the fatal mistake this is what
eventually undermined Barbarossa because
what he was doing now see the whole
greatness of the German army the whole
originality of the concept was that the
blitzkrieg could move tremendous amounts
of armored artillery and infantry
mechanized infantry all right
vast amounts of distances stop and have
tremendous firepower knock out the enemy
and move to the next target but now what
Hitler's asking these guys to do is to
essentially fight it out in a giant gang
war in Stalingrad because for the simple
reason Stalingrad was a city of about
two hundred seventy five thousand people
when both the German army moved in and
the Russian army moved in you now had
about two million guys there all right
and so that's what it ended up being it
ended up being a street war in other
words it was fought by block to block
building the building sometimes window
by window when you would get a grueling
good sniper in there you know it would
take like seven hours to get him out of
a building and so the problem was that a
the Russians had more men there and B
they knew the city better okay all right
and so when it was all over the German
army was defeated and there's varying
estimates of this I'm gonna go the one
that I've seen that makes the most sense
to me was when Stalingrad was over
Hitler lost through either dad captured
or wounded 750,000 men hmm at the siege
of Stalingrad all right it's it was
really one of the most terrible defeats
in military history all right
and so that was essentially the end of
Barbarossa all right okay now the other
thing is Hitler tried to counter that
two feet with a tank battle at Kursk in
1943 and that particular patent the
estimates are that it was over six
thousand to makes involved in that
battle there I think there were 3300
Russian tanks and something like 2,700
German tanks involved in that battle and
people who have analyzed it say it was
really kind of a tie but since Hitler
had to win it was really a defeat so now
you had the German infantry was now
neutralized and at Kursk you had the
Great Sea the great German invention of
world war ii and the reason that made
the blitzkrieg so unstoppable was the
Panzer tank but Hitler lost so many of
those tanks
between the Russian invasion and Kursk
that the whole greatness the originality
the striking power of the German army
was now pretty much wrecked on the
steppes of Russia so that is really how
the Third Reich was defeated it wasn't
this d-day thing you know it wasn't you
know Churchill in El Alamein etc I mean
Rommel basically got scraps left over
from Operation Barbarossa to fight
Montgomery in North Africa I mean it's
amazing what Rommel did there
considering he was taking on the whole
British Eighth Army with a bunch of
second-string you know infantry guys in
third-string tanks all right all right
and so that's see this is why and this
is something I really I really take
people like Ambrose at ask for this is
why the Allied invasion of France was
successful because the great part of the
German army you know had been
essentially neutralized on the Russian
front if that wouldn't have happened I
don't believe that d-day would have been
successful all right all right so so
anyway anyway this is a problem that
I've had with Ambrose Ambrose field Berg
and Hanks all right now picking up on
that the because of the Cold War because
of the idea that we weren't going to
give the Russians any credit because
they were now our enemies historical
establishment ignored Operation
Barbarossa like Ambrose they chose to
glorify with people like Eisenhower had
done in Europe and to a lesser extent
MacArthur in the Pacific in Hollywood
and television in the film industry
all right they followed that model
movies like the longest day Anzio
battled the Bulge were echoed by small
screen productions like the TV series
combat the gallant man and twelve
o'clock high you know and so parents
bought their kids you know toy weapons
you know and they play games modeled on
this whole thing of America crushing the
Nazis right the social and historical
problem with that in books films and
network television was simple that this
attributed see this illusion that the
United States had defeated the Germans
that illusion contributed a cultural
mythology of American omnipotence both
in its military might and its moral
cause and that pretense of both might
and right was slowly and excruciatingly
League rounded pieces and the jungles of
Indochina you know this is a very
important cultural issue that I never
have seen Ambrose that before he passed
away
Hanks or Spielberg ever deal with that
issue in any real sense you know and I
really don't think any of them have ever
confronted it you know if you could make
a film so weirdly lopsided as the post
then I think you can say for whatever
reason it's just not in them you know
Hanks after all 61 Spielberg is 71 gift
after a combined 132 years on this
planet they still don't comprehend this
and it's probably too late you know and
I tried to understand this a little bit
in my book the JFK assassination the
evidence today and I spend some pages
going into their backgrounds to try and
comprehend it alright alright so what's
all that as a backdrop well before we go
on let me just ask you you know we have
like this whole Russia gate thing going
on now
and kind of before you have Hillary
Clinton calling Putin you know Hitler
and basically people ignoring the facts
of what happened in World War two what
do you think that's doing now with the
whole conversation about Trump and Putin
and Russia gate and all this stuff
you think this is blind spot about world
war two is having any effect on that
conversation well look there's a great
part of the historical establishment in
this country all right that has
something invested in reigniting the
Cold War
all right and a great part of it never
really wanted to see the Cold War
actually end you know and so I believe
that for whatever reason you know I
think a lot of it is commercialized I
think that people at CNN especially you
know you know they have something
invested in seeing this whole Russian
boogeyman
you know resurrected all right you know
and because they think it draws in
viewers I think the Democratic Party is
invested in it because they see it as a
way of wounding Trump right and bringing
down the Republicans all right you know
I'm kind of doubtful that there's
anything really there okay you know I'm
not saying it isn't I'm just saying that
you know when Mueller has to indict a
troll farm you know which specializes in
clickbait right you know okay like he
did and now yesterday we turn this
indictment of I think 12 people in GRU
when in fact do you know what
intelligences the United States have in
Russia right now that you can base
evidence on this you know you know so
you know I'm not saying there's nothing
there but I'm saying that I really think
that there is a kind of conscious push
you know to try and make a lot out of
relatively little you know and then the
other issue I have with this you know
why is it okay for the United States to
intervene in Russian elections and
Ukraine elections you know but somehow
it's a - Utley deed you know when they
do things like this at the very worst
hacking the DNC website right you know I
mean you know I just don't see the
comparison you know I mean I'm sure
you're aware it was it was Bill Clinton
who saved Boris Yeltsin yeah he was
gonna lose the election all right Bill
Clinton sent money his advisers over you
know and he also did some very very
shady things okay in order to maintain
power and then in the Ukraine I mean my
god that's film Ukraine on fire which I
reviewed for Bob Perry that consortium
news I mean that's a very good expose
what the United States did there so you
know I have a real problem with this
kind of hypocrisy you know yeah all
right now coming to the actual film
itself 1968 year that changed America
this was broadcast by CNN all right and
CNN has been a prime outlet for anxious
documentaries alright and I have a
problem with a show that has his main
Talking Heads people like Pat Buchanan
Tim Naftali and Evan Thomas and then we
get dan Rather we get the Washington
Post Thomas Rick's Nixon employee Dwight
Chapin and Tom Hanks himself all right I
don't think that's a very distinguished
panel all right it's certainly nothing
more than mainstream bloviating if you
ask me it begins at dan Rather
discussing the fading presidency of LBJ
and so we get the usual standby cliche
that LBJ passed some good domestic
legislation like Medicare but how this
was outweighed by this war in Vietnam
all right right here I thought I thought
that they missed a very good opportunity
to make a parallel with today you know
that is Vietnam was called the
living-room Warren because for the first
time you had journalists like Morley
Safer and I clicked to in a video of him
during Vietnam being right there in the
middle of military operations and this
brought the brutality right in your
dining room so like as you were eating
dinner
you were watching things like the Tet
Offensive okay later on the Pentagon
realized that that was a mistake
so when later wars that was very much
cutback what took his place was
something called the junket or press
pool or sometimes called the embedded
reporter mm-hmm you know certain
journalists who they trusted were given
very restricted access accompanied by
escorts and they reported back to their
colleagues and and that's how very
censored vision of the news operated in
things like Operation Desert Storm and
the invasion of Iraq especially this
liusia I mean that was the only way you
could see what the United States was
doing at Fallujah is that somebody
posted some film that an Italian TV
station you know had taken of what was
going on at Fallujah that's the only way
that you could see that the United
States was using phosphorus you know at
the city of Fallujah right now ii lost
opportunity was I believe explaining
precisely why Johnson had become so
unpopular by 1968 and the main reason
for that is because in 1964 he had run
on a peace platform and he tried to
portray Barry Goldwater as being the
hawk on Vietnam well once he was elected
he completely went back on that promise
all right and he began to break with
Kennedy's policy of having no combat
troops in Vietnam so by the end of 1965
America had 175,000 combat troops in
Vietnam by the 1968 there about a half a
million there and if that wasn't enough
you also had Rolling Thunder the largest
aerial bombardment campaign in military
history and because he escalated the war
so much there had to be a draft and
there began to be for very good reasons
resistant to that draft this and that's
why Johnson became so unpopular and I
believe this film discounts all of those
points all right but you can't do that
alright and understand just how bad it
got for Johnson all right and having Dan
Rather do it is not a good choice you
know
we then cut to the siege of Khe Sanh and
its head offensive and Philip Caputo
talks about Khe Sanh hangs discusses the
ladder Tet I again I'm very surprised
that again this was a very good
opportunity to talk about some of the
dynamics of the Vietnam War because
there's always been a debate about
whether or not Khe Sanh the siege of the
Marine base in the north of Vietnam
north part of South Vietnam was related
to tap because Khe Sanh started a few
weeks before the Tet Offensive it's
later turned out that in the state of
scholarship today the consensus is that
Khe Sanh was a diversion for Tet which
Westmoreland the commanding general
there fell for alright ok
and so as so many of these crap troops
was more than was sending up north the
Tet Offensive began with a combination
of the Vietcong and some North
Vietnamese regulars not some but
actually tons of thousands coming across
the Cambodian border right later on the
commander to North tender of the North
Vietnamese Army General guy up later
admitted that case on itself was not
important but only served as a diversion
to draw American forces away from the
population centers of the south and that
of course is important because that's
one of the reasons that was so
successful alright now this part of the
program ends with somebody saying that
Tet was a military defeat but such a
shock that it succeeded psychologically
I don't agree with that militarily what
Tet showed was two very important points
the first is that the three-year
escalation
by Johnson and Westmoreland had been a
failure
no major city in South Vietnam was
secure from attack not even the American
Embassy in Saigon all right
the enemy was everywhere all right and
armed and ready to kill the the whole
strategy of wearing down the opponent
through a war of attrition was misguided
and in the end useless secondly and I
think this is even more important it
showed that this whole manufactured
country in South Vietnam was nothing but
a hollow shell without American troops
Tet probably would have collapsed the
Saigon government all right Johnson and
Westmoreland had built no effective in
depending fighting force there and it
was the exposure of those two failures
that ended up cashiering both Johnson
and Westmoreland and also Johnson
finally got the message that we
shouldn't be sending any more combat
troops there because you can believe it
Westmoreland won a 200,000 more troops
shipped into Vietnam I think the third
result of chat and this is completely
ignored by this program was it showed
the astonishing lack of American
intelligence all right I mean when you
can't predict an offensive that big
coming right down the middle of the
plate I mean what good is your
intelligence anyway you know but that
didn't seem to hurt Ted Shackley who was
a CI station chief in Saigon at that
time all right all right the complement
to this part of what was going on in
Vietnam is that the American army was
disintegrating de miel I massacre took
place in March of 1968 and if you can
believe it the show doesn't mention that
hmm I also could find no mention of what
meal i was very probably a part of which
is operation Phoenix
which was a CIA systematic and brutal
program to torture and kill civilians
who are suspected of being Vietcong all
right reporters like sy Hersh had denied
my live was part of the Phoenix program
but later writers like Doug Valentine
have discovered new evidence which
indicates it was all those are all of
norman and i also believe that the show
kind of ignores the whole point of why
johnson we did not run if you remember
he came on TV at the end of march 1968
and made this very surprising
announcement that he would not run for
reelection alright there's two reasons
today in the literature that indicate
why he would not the first is that he
had a conference with what was called
the wise men in the White House and he
brought in a briefer to explain how Tet
was really a military loss for the
Communists at that point former
Secretary of State Dean Acheson got up
and walked out later on a Johnson aide
called and asked him why and he said I'm
not gonna sit through any more canned
Pentagon briefings all right I want to
see the raw reports and I want to talk
to the people on the ground after that
LBJ sent secretary defense Clark
Clifford over the Pentagon to do just
that now Clifford had been a hawk on the
war after two weeks of asking questions
and getting reports from the Pentagon he
completely reversed position and he
realized what an utter and complete
sinkhole Vietnam was because these guys
couldn't answer his questions all right
and he would ask questions like okay
what if we increase our troops by fifty
thousand you know can can they bring
more Vietnamese regulars down through
the Ho Chi Minh Trail and he would get
an answer like well probably mmm yes so
after about two weeks of this you know
cliff Clifford decided there was no way
out and he told Johnson to seek a
negotiated settlement all right and so
that was the first thing the second
thing was that after Eugene McCarthy did
so well in Newham the New Hampshire
primary which is about the middle part
of March all right he only lost by
something like seven points to Johnson
Robert Kennedy then announced his
nomination to run a few days later and
so at this point his Johnson's campaign
managers in Wisconsin which was the next
big primary told him that you're gonna
get blasted your campaign has completely
collapsed in Wisconsin and in fact the
Wisconsin primary I think was April
April the second and Johnson lost by
something like 25 points okay so that is
those are the two reasons you know why
he decided not to run and he was just
going to go ahead and try for a
negotiated settlement instead and the
diss film doesn't mention either one
this is how bad the scholarship is in
this all right then we shift ground to
Memphis all right and we get Kings role
in the sanitation workers strike there
in March and April which eventually led
to his assassination on April the fourth
there's absolutely no discussion of all
the strange circumstances surrounding
this and in fact they actually real
I am late Billy Kyle's as a witness who
some people actually think like Judge
Joe Brown might have actually been part
of the plot all right and there's very
little mention very little about what
King was trying to do in 67 and 68 which
was expanding his original focus you
know into things like the Vietnam War
and the economy right right
was there any mention of the COINTELPRO
being used against them or any of the no
no right now Hanks has always had a
weakness for going for cultural history
all right so then we cut to I guess this
is supposed to show his sensitivity to
Africa America african-americans we go
to James Brown and Diana Ross in the
music business and then we go to in the
heat of the night winning the Best
Picture Oscar and then he descends into
almost parity with a section on plan of
the apes all right with Charlton Heston
with that famous scene at the end with
the Statue of Liberty destroyed and and
this idiot Rick Pearlstein you know this
historian of the rise of the right in
the 60s he says something like well the
riots in the cities were reflected in
the destruction of the statute yeah
please my aching back our only only
Playtone could put that on the air yeah
I know
I really wish what they would have
focused on more was a Kerner commission
because the Kerner commission was a very
distinguished body that road of 400 and
pays for nine twenty three page report
on the causes of the rioting from 1967
up to 1968 and it became a best-seller I
think it sold 2 million copies and for
that time it was really an insightful
report
it basically said that in more than half
the cases the riots were started by an
opening episode of police brutality then
other people reacted to and it was
fueled by frustration with both the
educational programs available and the
failed housing in the areas and by the
way again let me add something to this I
know this is a fact to this day which
shows you of course that we've never
really overcome these problems because
when I was teaching in the LA School
District in the 90s all right I used to
teach summer school a lot of the time
and so one summer I taught at a high
school on the west side of Los Angeles
all right and in my second period
economics class I had about I say one
third of that class was african-american
so one afternoon I drove where the post
office to mail a letter and I noticed
that the area was all white and Asian
just driving about two miles on the
street to to get to the post office so
the next day I came back in that class I
said where do you guys live and they
said we live in South Central and I go
well how do you enroll here if you live
over there and they said we come before
the semester starts and we take out peel
boxes at the post office hmm I said you
commit mail fraud and they said yeah
okay I said but then how do you get here
from way over there and they said the
Metro I said the Metro I go what time do
you have to wake up
and they go 5:30 Oh and I go how many
transfers do you take three three and I
said why do you put yourself through all
that they had a very simple answer we
don't want to go to the schools in our
neighborhood hmm all right so the Kerner
commission way back in 1968 you know was
very insightful about this the problem
is but they even criticized the media
okay for not focusing on these problems
and the the very famous quote from that
report is our nation is moving towards
two societies one black one white
separate but unequal well this thing was
so incendiaries that Johnson ignored it
when it came out he completely ignored
it when it came out you know how you're
supposed to meet with the Commission and
you get a photo-op and the guy gives you
the book you know like I did the Warren
Commission right okay well that didn't
happen with the Kerner commission see
and Dad Johnson ignoring that report
again they miss a very good opportunity
here that was the beginning of the new
policy under Richard Nixon and his
domestic adviser Pat Monahan which Pat
Monahan immortally labeled a period of
so-called benign neglect towards the
race problem all right and that was a
very good opportunity to Center on that
because exactly what Nixon did all right
now the third large amount after Vietnam
and King is the Democratic race between
McCarthy and Robert Kennedy all right
Tim Naftali says that Kenny did not
enter until Johnson had already been
wounded by McCarthy in New Hampshire but
utterly false Bobby Kennedy was having
meetings about whether to run or not
in both January and February two months
before the New Hampshire primary
his brother Teddy did not want him to
run most of his advisors did not wanted
to run they said your because this was
before Johnson dropped out you're gonna
split the party they said Jackie Kennedy
did not want him to run she had a
different reason she thought he was
gonna get shot you know where she ended
up being correct all right the person
who pushed Bobby Kennedy in their
running was his wife Ethel he says
whether you win or lose you have to
stand up for what you believe in all
right and so he had decided and by the
way this is in joules with Cobras book
85 days which has been out there for oh
my god 45 years okay it was a chronicle
of RFK last campaign that he had decided
to enter the race about four days before
the primary but he did not want to
announce because he didn't want to have
an impact on the battle between McCarthy
and Johnson in New Hampshire all right
okay the film then depicts Robert
Kennedy delivering his great speech in
Indianapolis on the night of kings
murder all right
again this offered so many opportunities
to name just one Bobby Kennedy got the
news of King being shot during a rally
in Muncie Indiana
okay the Indiana primary was going on
when he got the news he got into the
plane with Frank mankiewicz one of his
advisers as Frank mankiewicz got on a
plane with Bobby Kennedy he said Bobby
took out a picture
of him standing next to Martin Luther
King and he showed it to me all right
a nice and mankiewicz later said by
doing that gesture I realized that he
thought he was going to be the next guy
to be shot all right now wouldn't that
have been a really great piece of
information to convey to the public
because of what is just wave of
assassinations that was decapitating the
left in this country at that time you
know you know yeah well you won't see it
here okay all right
they go through the riots at Columbia
okay and see that the rise of Columbia
were kind of interesting because there
it was a split between the SDS faction
and the african-american students they
had different reasons for going on
strike all right the SDS guys were upset
the Columbia was calm cooperating with
something called the Institute for
Defense analysis on the Vietnam War the
african-american students were upset
because the university was purchasing
lower-class land nearby to build what
they thought was going to be a
segregated gym or gymnasium well that
never gets mentioned here and neither
does a fact that towards the end the
mainstream media through the students
under the bus even though the fact that
New York Police Department
essentially invaded the campus they
injured 100,000 Radko and they arrested
600 all right it now begins the film now
goes to the Nixon and Wallace all right
and of course Nixon had was running on
the Republican ticket
Wallace was running as a third party
candidate and I don't think that they
really made clear what Nixon and Wallace
we're doing you know they handing around
at it but what they were doing a course
was they decided to exploit all this
inner-city conflagration on then in the
name quote of law and order and decided
to do this for political purposes the
idea was to ignore the underlying causes
all right which had been made easy by
LBJ ignoring the Kerner commission and
Nixon particularly began to cultivate
what was later to be called actually was
Kevin Phillips who the adviser had made
it up already
it was called the Southern Strategy all
right
Kevin's Phillips his advisor was very
open about this and in fact there's an
article in The New York Times in 1970
where he talked about it all right he
said one of the things that he noticed
about Barry Goldwater's loss to Lyndon
Johnson in 1964 was that besides his
home state of Arizona
Goldwater only took five other states
but those five states were all in the
deep south and this is a very important
point Phillips the reason Goldwater took
those states was that he had voted
against the Civil Rights Act of 1964
therefore he advised his party that we
should enforce Voting Rights Act and new
14 Rights Act that Johnson passed in 65
because and I'm quoting here to know the
more Negroes who register as Democrats
in the south
the sooner the Negro full of whites will
quit the Democrats and become
Republicans that's where the votes are
all right without that the whites will
black backslide into their old
comfortable arrangement
with the local Democratic Party and that
was clearly the Republican strategy all
right and it's being the Republican
strategy almost ever since see because
the white voters in the South
outnumbered the african-american voters
by at least three to one
all right so Phillips just did the math
okay if we can show the Democrats as the
party of civil rights and voting rights
okay for that's fine let them take the
black voters we want the more populist
the more populist right-wing voters in
the south with the you know those old
dixie guys Battle Hymn of the Republic
and all those guys you know who still
think they won the war we want those
guys cuz there's so many more of them
right see if it would have been me
producing this thing I would have had
Kevin Phillips on reading his memo okay
meanwhile I would have just opposed that
with Bobby Kennedy in November of 1963
as his brother is visiting Dallas
writing out a letter of resignation
because he thinks that he's lost the
election for John F Kennedy because he
was too far out in front on the civil
rights issue and he had lost a son
because he had been a campaign manager
he realized the more he pressed this
issue the more states they were gonna
lose in the south all right see that
that would have been a really great
thing to put on this you know this is
tragic moral quandary between because
it's literally you do the right thing
that is you stand up for the civil
rights of black Americans and you lose
I mean that that's one definition of
tragedy or okay doing the morally
correct thing and sacrificing yourself
in the process you know and the thing is
what that would have accented was the
fact that the eighteen previous
presidents prior to JFK had ignored the
issue and they had allowed a system of
segregation and discrimination to first
ride and then flourish in the south and
this includes FDR and Truman I mean all
FDR did was he decided to integrate the
munitions industry that is the the the
occasion so that's which is not very
difficult to do okay all Truman did was
integrate military bases who the heck
goes there you know and so that's as far
as these Democrats would go alright it's
as far as they thought they could go
without losing everything else all right
okay and so Bobby Kennedy by 1963
understood that the backlash that things
like bringing out the military at Ole
Miss like facing off against George
Wallace at the University of Alabama
which had all been done in public
national television etc the dad had
created this white backlash that the
Republicans were now going to manipulate
that would have been a great thing to
put on this show I believe but forget a
mention Kosovan didn't have any interest
in it yeah I mean it seems so such a
strange thing to try to do is present a
one-year as a history but only stay
within that one year and not be able to
pry it any backs
what kind of history can you possibly
write David because you could have done
it in that series called the 60s because
tanks and goetzmann did Daud Daud would
have been a great backdrop to do this
whole thing but they didn't do it very
well they're either right you know and I
think again see Hanks thinks he's
historian okay but he really he doesn't
he's not very good at doing in-depth
stuff or complex things and this is the
easiest kind of history that he does you
know it's pretty much high school stuff
all right now as we go into the last
part the last part of course concerns
the actual race in 1968 you know for the
presidency Nixon had a very well-planned
well organized campaign he got in early
his two opponents in the beginning part
were Michigan Governor George Romney and
the governor of New York Nelson
Rockefeller in 1967 Romney made a
mistake and he told the truth about
Vietnam and explaining his early support
for the war he said he'd been
brainwashed by the army about it and
that eventually which was true of course
but the Republican Party didn't want to
hear that all right and so this force
him to leave the field in the February
Rockefeller vacillated hesitated and did
not enter the race until the end of
April he did fairly well he came in
second at the convention in Miami Ronald
Reagan challenged Nixon in some of the
primaries but only won his home state of
California Spiro Agnew the governor of
Maryland was nominated for vice
president because he had delivered a
scolding to civil rights demonstrators
in Maryland and you know I said the
Republican strategy was the counter this
whole uprising with civil rights and
plate white backlash and the agony was a
good guy for that this was a milestone
and again I don't think that this show
makes enough of it because when you
analyze this Nixon's victory and the
failure of Romney and Rockefeller to
challenge him from the center marked the
beginning of the end of the moderate and
liberal wings of the Grand Old Party
it's hard to believe that there are
words that you think back then but there
actually was the moderate wing was
represented by people like Senator John
Sherman Cooper okay the liberal wing was
represented by people like Jacob Javits
of New York all right what happened is
once they field to stop Nixon it was a
challenger from the far right we Ronald
Reagan who then eventually became
president and that began this is from
the beginning Reagan's victory and 80 is
the end you know that began the
right-wing radicalization of the
Republican Party you know led you know
William F Buckley got his wish all right
I was going ahead and manipulator people
like Reagan Newt Gingrich and Tom DeLay
so today the Republican parties I mean
there is no moderate forget liberal
there's no moderate wing of the
Republican Party at all and Capitol here
right now we then go to California and
we go to the assassination of Robert
Kennedy and like with the King case this
film does not do anything to alert the
reader as to the true circumstances of
that assassination Tim Naftali says
words like Kennedy exited
the embassy room walked through their
pantry and Sirhan was waiting for him
all right well you got to say that to be
on CNN right okay but the real fact is
that Sirhan was escorted into the pantry
about the infamous girl in the polkadot
dress after he shared coffee with her or
as Saran himself said quote then she
moved and I followed her she led me into
a dark place unquote
all right now is a very interesting
moment that comes after this in the
aftermath of the shooting as Sirhan is
being pummeled one person cries out stop
we don't want another Oswald now that
person whether he realized it or not
that exclamation bridged a union
five-year national psychological chasm
that extended from Dallas Texas
all right with ruby rubbing out Oswald
on November 24th to Bobby Kennedy
getting killed all right and the show
doesn't say anything about that at all
all right Kennedy's death is followed by
the subsequent Requiem Mass at st.
Patrick's in New York
featuring Ted Kennedy's memorable eulogy
we then see the famous railroad car
journey from New York to Washington
where two million spectators lined two
tracks to say goodbye and pay their
respects to Bobby Kennedy Hanks comes on
dissipates the whole thing by saying
words the effect and that was the end of
1968 oh my god Tom that was not just the
end of 1968 okay that was the end of
what most historians would call the
second phase of the 60s you know most
people call 62 63 the Camelot 60s of
hope for change of a new direction it
said or the new frontier
that came to an end in 1963 in Dallas
the second phase is the angry 60s all
right
that is civil rights protests
anti-vietnam War protests riots in the
city etc that was ended with Bobby
Kennedy getting killed in Los Angeles
and it was a murders of King and RFK
that spelled the end of all the great
promise and hope that the early 60s had
after that you had the escape and the
drugs and psychedelic rock epitomized by
Woodstock in 1969 in other words the
decade was essentially shot to death but
you're not going to have tom hanks say
that all right
during Kennedy's funeral at Arlington
many inhabitants of Resurrection City
decided the Poor People's Campaign which
was going to be in Washington journeyed
over to pay their last respects you know
this was fitting in more than one aspect
because it was Bobby Kennedy through
Marion Wright who had given King the
idea for the poor people's March the
film doesn't take notice of that that
irony that both men the guy who
originated the guy who executed the idea
we're now dead nor does it note that Tom
Hayden was about to lead to
demonstration in Chicago was weeping and
appeal during the Requiem Mass at st.
Patrick's Cathedral the leader the SDS
[Music]
yeah guy I think he subconsciously
realized that it was all over now you
know and that of course would have been
a great lead-in to the disaster of the
Democratic convention in Chicago all
right where Hubert Humphrey had entered
the race late bypassing any primaries
all right but now with Bobby Kennedy
dead
all right he was now able to win his
party's nomination okay and so McCarthy
as the film notes he sort of slid off
the grid after Bobby Kennedy defeated
him in California all righty
he really didn't fight or registred
thing on the national scale so that
there wasn't any alternative to Humphrey
and that was the cause of the
demonstrations and the rioting that took
place in Chicago because all those kids
that were there who wanted to stop the
war didn't have anybody because at this
point Humphrey had not denounced a war
he was still in Tony Johnson at that
time all right now online also another
point it it's not really accurate today
to do what the film says and convey the
fact that the network's really covered
the rioting outside that's not really
true because later on there were a lot
of film private films that were shown to
the rise but during the actual broadcast
of the convention for instance NBC had
19 hours of total coverage out of those
19 hours only 14 minutes of that
coverage was on the demonstrations and
police beatings outside which if you can
just do the math and you'll figure out
that that's like well less than 5%
Universal okay of the coverage is
probably more like three you know so
that's an illusion to say that it was
covered on national TV
it really was not it was only just a few
moments that the network's broke away
from what was inside so what's going on
outside all right now besides the
Chicago demonstrations failing due to
the brutality to the Chicago Police and
Mayor Richard Daley right you also had
the flame out of the poor people's March
in Washington
without Bobby Kennedy you had the first
that is her Chicago riots without King
you had the second to failure the poor
people's March all right and daily again
this was this was something I think that
the that they missed daily with the
death of Robert Kennedy daily was almost
determined to stamp out this left-wing
uprising okay to the point that the
police even rated gene McCarthy's
headquarters it's a Hilton Hotel okay
which is kind of amazing when you think
of it you know gene McCarthy is supposed
to be a radical okay you know but that's
how that's how determined he was okay to
do Johnson's bidding and to secure
Humphrey denomination well the point is
that because Humphrey was still in
Johnson's pocket concerning the war all
right
he did not announce a support for a
bombing halt and negotiations until the
last month of the campaign and McCarthy
because of that would not endorse him
until the last week see if you do the
math it's very easy to come to the
conclusion that Kennedy and McCarthy
could have beaten Humphrey at the
convention all right they could have
stopped him from winning a first-ballot
victory and then Kennedy would have
probably won on the second ballot and he
would have promised McCarthy you know
either the vice presidency or Secretary
of State or something in his
administration and that's what would
have happened all right all right and so
what happened of course is that because
Humphrey was so late to come around in
the war he fell about one percentage
point short of beating Nixon and
although the film tries to say that
Illinois which went for Nick
made the difference that's not really
true if you check the electoral college
Nixon still would have won the
difference I believe is if you analyze
the Wallace campaign and I have a link
there to a pretty good analysis of that
see this was the beginning of peeling
away the white middle class from
Roosevelt's New Deal coalition okay
Wallace it's in it's in essence did that
all right now to the film's credit it
does mention the October Surprise of
1968 that is Nixon's actions through
Republican lobbyist Anna Chennault to
sabotage Johnson's attempt to get
negotiations going in Paris between
Saigon and Hanoi
it turned out to be quite effective and
it probably caused Humphrey the election
all right um
president to in Saigon gave a 27 minute
speech a few days before the election
saying he was not going to buy by
Johnson's wishes and that probably had a
lot to do with stopping Humphreys rush
at the end all right but the film I
believe doesn't ask the next logical
question since Johnson knew about Nixon
subversion while it was in progress why
didn't he make it public all right he
also had the evidence that the Greek
Kunta in Athens had funneled Nixon a
half a million dollars during his
campaign which was clearly a bribe you
know and Johnson you got to ask the
question did Johnson like not want
Humphrey to win you know I mean some
people some journalists and some writers
have actually written that Johnson
actually preferred Nelson Rockefeller
hmm yeah over-over Hubert Humphrey
because he thought Rockefeller would
stay more true to him on the war
holy officer you gotta still have this
strange thing going on where you know
Barack Obama sees supposedly all these
kind of things happening with the
hacking and the DNC and he's trying to
get Mitch McConnell to sign a bipartisan
letter with them instead of just coming
out and trying to you know we learn
people what's going on so yeah let me
say I'm stressing in some I think you
can understand this by now oh let me
just have this conclusion the film ends
with Apollo 7 on Apollo 8 tanks has
always had this hang-up with the Apollo
mission and the message is supposed to
be I think that somehow even though 68
was a terrible year the fact that it had
Apollo 7 Apollo 8 actually salvaged it
which i think is absolutely ridiculous
but it's a kind of mentality that Tom
Hanks and Gary goes from and have all
right
in some this is a very disappointing and
mediocre rendering of what was a
tumultuous very important year all right
what Playtone does here is just simply
slap together archival footage with
Talking Heads which would not be bad if
the Talking Heads
had something original or insightful to
say but they don't okay it's not even
close I mean when I can rewrite the
script in my analysis and you know
what's left out all right and that's a
real shame because what happened in 1968
cast a very long shadow and it's a
shadow the cuts well in to the new
millennium as I've tried to say here
okay like for example the radicalization
of the right wing and the Republican
Party right um well I mean what is even
the purpose of this didn't we just how
did this compare to I'll say Ken Burns
just treated 1968 you know what was a
few months ago even like that any
difference in that any difference
between when Ken Burns did his whole
Vietnam War special you know was it oh
okay
that's an interesting question because I
reviewed dad of course also and I was
really disappointed in that one too
and that multi-part documentary alright
and I think really if you want to really
be honest about this
I think the Ken Burns production is much
closer to something Playtone could live
with then it would be would a really
honest documentary like the very famous
excellent documentary by Peter Davis
hearts and mind that is a great movie
see that me that was a much more honest
look at the Vietnam War so if you had to
put it on a spectrum I would say that
Ken Burns Vietnam ting is closer to Tom
Hanks and Gary goes from then it is the
Peter David you know so I'm really you
know I'm really glad you brought this up
because I think this tells us something
about our culture you know and what
what's happening to it you know that
it's becoming kind of homogenized
pasteurized whatever you want to use
whatever word you want to use about it
washed out diluted you know this great
hope we had for an alternative media you
know that cable TV was gonna represent
you know it hasn't really come close to
fruition you know and it's essentially
if you ask me it's more of what as they
used to call it before it's more of the
of the big three if you remember the
network's used to be dominated by CBS
ABC and NBC you know and people thought
well once we break up that monopoly
people are gonna have a real choice well
I don't think it turned out that way you
know and I think this is an example and
even the Ken Burns shows an example
because what's happened to PBS
very simply is that as the Republicans
have taken more and more money away from
public broadcasting they've had to go
more and more to right-wing foundations
to get anything at all and so that's
what they've done you know and so Ken
Burns of course you take a look at his
documentary he took money from the from
the cook brothers Foundation and so you
you don't get money like that for
telling the absolute truth about
something as bad as Vietnam right um I
have one one question prepared here and
then I've got one more that I just want
to ask at the end but you just
documented like Tom Hanks's version of
history and sort of a more more
realistic version of history so you know
what do you think happens when we keep a
country teachtown itself this kind of
sanitized version of history and then do
you think there's any anything about
this mismatch of like what a country
keeps telling itself in its mainstream
media and then the actual reality that
we kind of see people today when we end
up with say Donald Trump you see all
these people saying well you know this
is an America or this is an America we
know is there some connection here is
you know kind of is the America we know
when you really look at it what's going
on here is this is this part of the
problem some of this is kind of phony
history that we've got yeah IIIi think
that that's correct
I think if you have so many people who
are watching this stuff and there's no
doubt that you know that you've got
literally millions of people you know
watching this what I believe is a very
misleading portrait of the past you know
and what it does is it's funnels what is
supposed to be the truth into something
that's really more politically palatable
all right and if you don't stand up for
that truth if you don't stand up for
that truth you know Dan you leave a door
open to somebody like Trump okay you
know and really Ronald Reagan was one of
the first politicians who tried to
politically capitalize the Vietnam War
and disguise it for what it really was
if you remember what he called it was
the so-called noble cause you know which
sort of reminds me of how the
southerners thought about the Civil War
as the noble cause there was nothing
noble about the Confederacy you know and
I I blame Ken Burns for giving shelby
foote all of that all those talking
minutes on his documentary the civil war
if he remembers Shelby Foote was by far
and away the historian had the most face
time on that and Ken Burns made a
millionaire out of Shelby Foote okay by
selling so many books for him
Shelby Foote hung is any other way to
say this was more or less an apologist
for the Confederacy or he tried to make
that into as they say a noble cause just
like Reagan tried to make Vietnam into a
noble cause you know and I think I think
that that's really kind of dangerous to
do and I think it misleads people you
know and like I said when you pile one
illusion that America defeated the
German the Germans in World War two and
you piled that into the Vietnam War
which I think Ken Burns did all right
then I I really think what you're doing
is you're dumbing down America and
that's what these documentaries do you
know and and
between the ones I've talked to you
about which are tonight I talk to you
about Ken Burns and Tom Hanks in 1968
last week that we did the Kennedys an
American dynasty tea I don't think
there's any really there's no discovery
defense for doing this kind of thing not
in this day and age and like I said it's
a great disappointment of what has
happened to the so-called revolution in
television which wasn't a revolution at
all okay was just essentially more the
same you know and you're and you're
right I think they complement each other
you know well just one more question
this is only related to the fact that
Martin Luther King was assassinated in
1968 uh there was for a while I know
John Jones used to talk about it there
was a sort of movement to get Lee Martin
Luther King files released in the same
way that the JFK files were is there any
thing ever talked about that anymore do
you think that's that's something
possible and you think someone will ever
make a a Martin Luther King movie in the
same way that Oliver Stone made Jake you
know something that that is such a
wonderful idea and it's true that John
judge actually tried to get legislation
passed okay to enact a Martin Luther
King declassification but the problem
was when Cynthia McKinney lost her seat
in the house okay that was the kind of
end of John judges career you know in
the house and you know you know nobody
else except John and Cynthia McKinney
were going to sponsor that kind of
legislation you know and so as far as I
know it's been
have done and gone chin chef time well
that's a cheating that would be some
very interesting history to to crackle
and that will be the real domestic so my
jaw is astonishing as the JFK files are
that would be equally astonishing this
to do that stuff but yeah I don't know
is there anything else you want to add
before we go no no I think we've covered
it pretty well okay great well thanks
again for talking to us and look forward
to talking to you again
okay thanks David
this is our hidden history
you